# SFX Music Maker converter

A program that converts music files created by **SFX-Tracker** to an assembler source file - this allows you to link music data to the program.

## Build

The **Free Pascal Compiler** environment is required.

To compile the sources into an executable file for Linux systems, use:

~~~bash
fpc -TLinux -Mdelphi -v -O3s -Xs -FE./bin/ ./src/smm2obj.pas
~~~

The final program will be in the `bin` directory.

## Usage

### Command line

~~~bash
smm2asm source_file_name out_file_name [params]
~~~

First, the names must be given: the input file `source_file_name` (in **SFX Music Maker** format) and the output file name `out_file_name` - generated by the program in **MADS Assembler** format.

### Conversion configuration

#### `-org:address` or `-Ao:address`

Specifies the initial compilation address. Default is $A000.

You can use hexadecimal notation. To do this, prefix the correct value with a dollar sign `$...` or the prefix `0x...`', for e.g. `$9000  0xC000, xC000`

#### `-reduce:[SFXonly|TABonly|All]` or `-R:[SFXonly|TABonly|All]`

exclude unused SFX or TAB definitions (or both for `All`) from the conversion.

#### `-reindex:[SFXonly|TABonly|All]` or `-I:[SFXonly|TABonly|All]`

will move the SFX or TAB definitions (or both for `All`) to their initial indices.

#### `-makeconfing` or `-C`

Generates a configuration file for the SFX engine. The name of the generated file: "sfx_engine.conf.inc"
**MUST BE placed in the root directory of the project!**

#### `-audiobuffer:address` or `-Aa:address`

Specifies the starting address for the audio buffer.

#### `-regs:address` or `-Ar:address`

Specifies the starting address for the SFX motor registers. **The address MUST BE in the zero page area.**

#### `-chnregs:address` or `-Ac:address`

Specifies the starting address for the SFX engine channel service registers.

#### `-notetable:address` or `-An:address`

Specifies the starting address for the note table definition data. **The address is page aligned.**

#### `-sfxmodetable:address` or `-Am:address`

Specifies the starting address for SFXs mode information.

#### `-sfxtable:address` or `-As:address`

Specifies the starting address for the SFXs data address table.

#### `-tabtable:address` or `-At:address`

As above, but for TABs data.

#### `-song:address` or `-Ag:address`

Specifies the starting address for song definition data.

#### `-data:address` or `-Ad:address`

Specifies the starting address for SFXs and TABs definition data.

---

## The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright © 2021 GSD

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.